{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red108\green108\blue108;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 From: 
\b0 \cf3 <Rich.Hillary@csiro.au>\

\b \cf2 Subject: 
\b0 \cf3 RE: Your recent Biometrics paper.\

\b \cf2 Date: 
\b0 \cf3 2 November, 2011 4:40:21 PM PDT\

\b \cf2 To: 
\b0 \cf3 <s.martell@fisheries.ubc.ca>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf3 Hi Steve\
\
Many thanks for the email. Have attached the R code I used (and the file with the MCMC samples of the growth curve parameters for the t-distribution option in the paper) to generate the Monte Carlo sample of transition matrices. For all the fluff around the Lebesgue integrable sets as long as your length bins are simple intervals the relative overlap calc is fairly easy (lines 54-61 in the code). It would work for all manner of strange partitions (as long as they're Borel sets) but can't think of why they ever would be anything other than simple intervals... I think (well hope) the code makes sense but do drop me an email if you've any questions. \
\
For what it's worth i've been trying to do some stuff to deal with eqn. (10) if you're thinking of using it within an assessment framework as I was fairly non-specific and hand-wavy in the paper on that not inconsiderable detail... I think it depends on how strong the process variance is for the growth curve and whether the estimation of growth is done within the assessment bit as well. If it's externally and the process variance is high relative to the parametric variability then some kind of Laplace-like approximation using matrix normal densities for the actual transition matrix is quickest, but I haven't had much chance to test it; if parametric error dominates then I reckon a Laplace approach on the growth parameters with an internal construction of the transition matrix would be good. For growth estimated internally the key issue I found was if the process variance dominates parametric. This is definitely the case for the skipjack example so I was messing around using particle filtering within MCMC to deal with the process error bit. Sorry that was a ramble - hope this is useful and say hi to Murdo and Tom for me!\
\
Cheers\
Rich\
\
*<>*<>*<>*<>*<>*>*<>*<>*<>*<>*<>*<>\
\
Dr Richard Hillary\
Senior Ecological Modeller\
IMCAM Research Program and Wealth from Oceans Flagship\
Centre for Marine and Atmospheric Research\
CSIRO, GPO Box 1538\
Hobart, Tasmania\
Australia\
Tel. \'a0+61 (0)3 6232 5452\
rich.hillary@csiro.au\
________________________________________\
From: Steve Martell [s.martell@fisheries.ubc.ca]\
Sent: 03 November 2011 04:53\
To: Hillary, Rich (CMAR, Hobart)\
Subject: Your recent Biometrics paper.\
\
Dear Dr. Hillary,\
\
We have not met before, but I work with two of your former colleagues from Imperial: Murdoch McAllister, and Tom Carruthers. \'a0Both have urged me to contact you regarding your recent paper in Biometrics. \'a0I'm currently developing a length-based assessment model for Humpback Chub (an endangered fish species in the Grand Canyon). \'a0Anyways, to get to my point. \'a0I would very much like to try an implement your method of constructing the length transition matrix, but I'm naive of Lebesque Integration. \'a0You mention in your article R-code to construct equation 7. \'a0Would you object to sharing this code with me, I think it would help me understand this paper a little easier.\
\
Steve Martell,\
Associate Professor,\
University of British Columbia.\
\
\
\
}